RoleContracts.md, before:

Role Contracts
==============

Squad Captain
-------------

- Serves the Squad members
- Balances development of squad with project needs
- Is responsible for co-ordinating squad members and projects
- Is responsible for detecting and expressing squad needs, current and upcoming
- Is responsible for reporting squad elasticity: ability to grow or accept change.
- Is responsible for co-ordinating with other squads to fill pressing technical gaps.

Strategist
----------

- Serves the Squad Captains
- Matches squads to projects
- Determines which squads grow
- Gets final call about ending a squad and folding its members into other squads
- Co-ordinates inter-squad relations
- Works with squad captains to plan squad splits
- must respect elasticity limits reported by squad captains
- if conditions require that elasticity limits be violated, they will coordinate with the Squad Captain to determine the best course of action


Squad Needs
===========

Here are the needs we expect a Squad Captain to take into account:
  - Ensuring that the Squad has a tech lead, and sufficient tech leadership for the projects at hand
  - Ensuring that the Squad is grooming a new tech lead for when the current one rotates out
  - Be aware of any Squad members quality of life issues
  - Being aware of any gaps in the squad's technical capabilities in relation to scheduled project work

Filling Technical Gaps
======================

  - allocating dedicated research time
  - Getting classes, sessions, or consultation from trusted experts
  - mob learning sessions with another squad
  - short-term exchange programs with other squads

Commit message:

Tieing responsibilities to process modules from proposal.

RoleContracts.md, after:

Role Contracts
==============

Here are roles related to working within the stable-fluid team model. Parenthetical statements are the related process module to the responsibility.

Squad Captain
-------------

- Serves the Squad members
- Balances development of squad with project needs
- Is responsible for co-ordinating squad members and projects ("Smart, Multi-Project Teams")
- Is responsible for detecting and expressing squad needs, current and upcoming ("Cohesive Teams")
- Is responsible for reporting squad elasticity: ability to grow or accept change ("Continuous Change")
- Is responsible for co-ordinating with other squads to fill pressing technical gaps.

Strategist
----------

- Serves the Squad Captains
- Matches squads to projects ("Bring Work To The Team")
- Determines which squads grow ("Team Mitosis")
- Works with squad captains to plan squad splits ("Team Mitosis")
- Gets final call about ending a squad and folding its members into other squads ("Cohesive Teams")
- must respect elasticity limits reported by squad captains
- if conditions require that elasticity limits be violated, they will coordinate with the Squad Captain to determine the best course of action ("Cohesive Teams")
- May help co-ordinate inter-squad relations


Squad Needs
===========

Here are the needs we expect a Squad Captain to take into account:
  - Ensuring that the Squad has a tech lead, and sufficient tech leadership for the projects at hand
  - Ensuring that the Squad is grooming a new tech lead for when the current one rotates out
  - Be aware of any Squad members quality of life issues
  - Being aware of any gaps in the squad's technical capabilities in relation to scheduled project work

Filling Technical Gaps
======================

  - allocating dedicated research time
  - Getting classes, sessions, or consultation from trusted experts
  - mob learning sessions with another squad
  - short-term exchange programs with other squads
